STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

The most valuable resource for every industry is data. In the modern world, everything is available online, from Amazon shopping to Netflix pleasure, and all these activities produce a massive amount of data. I find it fascinating how various businesses use the information they have gathered to create their preventative and corrective business plans using analytical, statistical, and computer programming techniques. 
The concept of developing software that can take decisions based on its own judgement and circumstances appealed to me. When I was younger, I thought it was amazing, but with maturity and increased awareness, I realized that this way of thinking was rather pragmatist and practical, and I have since adopted it. 
I chose a six-year integrated programme at Devi Ahilya University called the Master of Computer Applications, which included both a Bachelor of Computer and Application and Master of Computer Application. Here, I received meticulous training and a skillful mixing of information from both the theoretical and practical worlds. The diverse curriculum of my postgraduate degree was beneficial in assisting me in making my career decision because it allowed me to find my interest in computer programming through its C++ and Java classes. These classes' underlying focus on logic, mathematics, and concepts for solving problems particularly captured my attention. Mathematics has been the core of my education since high school. I have learnt algebra, statistics, probability and calculus which created my foundation in advance mathematics. I learnt the basics of software engineering, project management, Object Oriented Programming and Database Management System. I learnt programming languages like C, C++, and Java. The knowledge of HTML, JSP, Software architecture and Relational Database management system helped me in my final year project where I designed a system for inventory management. Along with these, I studied mathematics which taught me to apply quantitative skills to complex logic development. Subjects like Database Management System and Data structure helped me better understand the Data storage and processing in the conventional Relational Database systems and how they proved to be inapt in handling Big Data.
Pertaining to my interest in IT and a passion to delve deeper into this domain, soon after completing my studies I joined Accenture, In June 2014, a global management consulting, technology services, and outsourcing firm. 
When I first started working as a software developer for a project called Aristos CTO - AIC that uses the Agile Methodology for delivery, my primary responsibilities were to comprehend the product, analyze the release's requirements and how they will affect the applications' already-existing features, design use cases to cover the new feature as well as existing functionalities, and test those use cases against the release's code to identify any issues and fix those issues.
As a part of AIC, I was encouraged to manage the team as well as engage in activities like research and development and lead  for various releases. 
Although I had JAVA training, AIC gave me the opportunity to increase my adaptability by providing me assignments that required intensive work on software design and development frameworks using Python, data frameworks like pandas and numpy, Django, and flask. I have also enjoyed developing, identifying inefficiencies and coming up with solutions, using CA DevTest Tool to create simulators, chat bots that respond to customer inquiries, creating release estimation matrices using MS Excel macros, and creating queries to retrieve data from projects' test data.
I had to develop an algorithm for optimizing virtual machine allocation while I was a member of an AIC team. A hypervisor is software that allows a single host computer to manage several guest virtual machines by essentially sharing its resources, such as memory and computing (VMs).  The fact that this technology is powered by AI and that a machine can make decisions and choose based on the traits of customer or end user astounded me. I performed a bit more research and found that many other businesses, including top industry heavyweights like Netflix and Google, are powered by AI, which accelerates computation and improves efficiency.
Later, I learned that AI-powered systems and machines are effective enough to find cures for diseases, perform surgeries, and play a crucial role in space exploration creating endless possibilities. This is where I was very much excited and wanted to learn the skill.

I desire to learn the nuances of Artificial Intelligence and I expect that personal traits such as inquisitiveness and pro-activeness will help me contribute to the student community by sharing the passion I have for technology. I believe learning AI can help me drive business decisions more efficiently and after gaining a profound understanding of this sector with a postgraduate program, I wish to venture into my journey of becoming a key stakeholder in driving business growth for any business I shall be part of. As a member of this profession, I expect to learn continuously & bring about innovative changes which would help in the development of the field and my country as a whole.
I aver that I shall work to the best of my capabilities and make use of every opportunity given to me in the finest possible way. I am confident that I will be able to learn and implement which contributed to the welfare of the society. I would be grateful to you, if I’m granted the opportunity to complete my postgraduation at university of Otago.

